cipherdiff(1)		NetBSD General Commands Manual		 cipherdiff(1)

NAME
     cipherdiff -- diff ciphersuites between a server and a spec

SYNOPSIS
     cipherdiff [-Vcdhpuv] [-o openssl] [-s spec] server [port]

DESCRIPTION
     The cipherdiff tool will report the list of SSL and TLS ciphers supported
     by the given server in colon-separated, ordered format.  If an optional
     spec is provided via the -s flag, then cipherdiff will also report on the
     differences between what the server supports versus what the spec pro-
     vides.

     If no port is specified, cipherdiff will connect to port 443 on the given
     server.

OPTIONS
     The following options are supported by cipherdiff:

     -V		 Print version information and exit.

     -c		 When reporting cipher preference differences, display mis-
		 matches in color.  Ciphers missing on the server but found in
		 the spec will be printed in blue, extra ciphers offered by
		 the server but not found in the spec in magenta, ciphers that
		 are deprioritized by the server compared to the spec in red,
		 and ciphers that are preferred by the server over the spec in
		 yellow.

		 This is really only useful if the provided and observed specs
		 are sufficiently similar.

     -d		 Report differences in the cipher preferences via diff(1).

		 In this case, the cipher spec will be organized as a line-
		 break separated list and differences displayed in 'unified'
		 output.

		 This flag implies -p.

     -h		 Display help and exit.

     -l		 List supported ciphers.  This is the default action.  If com-
		 bined with -p, the result will be sorted in order of prefer-
		 ence by the server, otherwise alphabetically.

     -u		 List ciphers supported by the local openssl(1) command, but
		 not supported by the remote server.

     -o openssl	 Use the openssl(1) binary found in this location.  If not
		 specified, cipherdiff will look in a conservatively set PATH
		 of the usual suspects.	 (cipherdiff will not honor your PATH
		 environment variable since it runs with taint checking turned
		 on.)

     -p		 Perform a strict comparison to the given spec, accounting for
		 server preference.  This is slow (O(n^2) on the number of
		 ciphers supported by the openssl(1) library), as numerous
		 connections have to be made to the server.

     -s spec	 Diff the server's ciphersuite against the given spec.

     -v		 Be verbose.  Can be specified multiple times.

DETAILS
     Numerous tools exist to identify the different cipher suites and SSL/TLS
     protocols supported by a server.  However, in order to verify whether a
     remote server matches an exact cipher spec, one needs to iterate over all
     protocols and compare them to the given list.

     This process is very cumbersome, especially when attempted at any larger
     scale.  cipherdiff allows you to perform this task and report on the dif-
     ferences in a more convenient manner.  It does so by making multiple con-
     nections using the openssl(1) s_client(1) command and observing the
     cipher suite chosen by the server.

     In order to be able to test support for a given cipher suite, it neces-
     sarily must be supported by the local client (i.e. the openssl(1) library
     in use).  Results against the same server will thus vary depending on
     which cipher suites your library supports.

     Finally, when comparing a server's list of ciphers to a provided spec,
     cipherdiff will generate no output if the two match and simply return an
     exit status of 0.

EXAMPLES
     The following examples illustrate common usage of this tool.

     To merely report the cipher suites supported by www.example.com on port
     1234:

	   $ cipherdiff www.example.com 1234

     To list the cipher suites supported by www.example.com in port 443 in
     order of preference:

	   $ cipherdiff -p www.example.com
	   ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256:ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384:...

     To list the ciphers not supported by the server:

	   $ cipherdiff -u www.example.com
	   CAMELLIA128-SHA:CAMELLIA256-SHA:DHE-DSS-AES128-GCM-SHA256:...

     To compare the cipher preference on the server against the one found in
     the file '/tmp/s':

	   $ cipherdiff -s $(cat /tmp/s) -p www.example.com
	   ...

EXIT STATUS
     The exit status of cipherdiff depends upon its invocation:

     When comparing cipher suites (i.e. the -s flag was given), then
     cipherdiff will return an exit status of 0 if no differences were found,
     an exit status of 1 if any errors were encountered, and an exit status of
     2 if differences were found.

     When listing cipher suites, cipherdiff exits 0 on success, and >0 if an
     error occurred.

SEE ALSO
     openssl(1)

HISTORY
     cipherdiff was originally written by Jan Schaumann
     <jschauma@netmeister.org> in October 2016.

BUGS
     Please file bugs and feature requests by emailing the author.

NetBSD 7.0		       November 07, 2016		    NetBSD 7.0
